I'm here in the home of Toronto chef
Rodney Bowers and his wife Natalie and
they have two little children and when
they came to me they had just purchased
this house it was a traditional home
with a lot of small rooms linoleum clad
everywhere really ugly and really they
wanted to create a great warm family
home
Rodney's from the East Coast and he's
all about entertaining cooking for them
having parties and we really designed
this house for that purpose the approach
for the main floor here was a little bit
different than typical it really was
about double function family use
lounging as well as big dinner parties
so we actually didn't do a dining room
but rather more of a breakfast banquette
nook and what's interesting is the size
of this table matches the size of that
credenza so when they have big dinner
parties they pull that table over and
have this huge square eating area and
it's also open to this sort of wine area
when they have parties they'll lay out a
cocktail bar there it's all about the
socializing and Rodney can be cooking
and chatting up the guests like he's
famous for when designing this kitchen I
really worked closely with Rodney he
wanted it to be like a true restaurant
style kitchen that means everything's
within arm's length reach open-concept
restaurant style refrigeration a huge
restaurant style range which you'll
notice is not here right now
they love color so they've actually
ordered a new beautiful auger range in
green and I think it's actually gonna be
a great punch in this
we created a room just for Rodney and SS
and that's the library
he loves cookbooks he has a couple of
hundred cookbooks and he often does
catering and has guests in he'll bring
them into his library his big man
leather couch with a fire on have Scotch
talked about the deal the menu this is a
place where he can think and just
regroup after a big day at the
restaurant we went with a really dark
room I call it an evening room it's a
deep blue Pharaon ball on the walls the
cabinetry was all stained out in a dark
stain to match our beautiful new oak
floors the existing mantel was
spectacular but covered with a hundred
years of paint so it was painstakingly
refinished they actually used dental
tools to clean it off and then we
stained it to match and we carried that
the furniture is dark brown this is a
rich lush classic library
so this has actually had a great bonus
space it has a third floor but they're
sort of small rooms almost attic space
we blew it wide open lifted the ceiling
took out all the roof trusses and made a
great peek ceiling and we created this
master suite for that so it's it's an
l-shape they have their bedroom in one
area but it's open to the bathroom and
that's okay for them they actually love
that that can be having a bubble bath
while
Rodney's reading a book in bed and it's
just this great warm love then we call
it it's really bright and open because
we've increased the window sizes and
even the volume within the roofline
itself really adds a lot of light and
space Rodney and Natalie really are
everything about them is sort of a story
they love to collect things friends
paintings and the house I think is a
great reflection of that it wasn't my
job to come in and make it
picture-perfect it was really supposed
to represent them and their journey
together as a couple and where they're
going in the future and I think we've
done that every piece is really
something they've selected and there's a
lot of stuff but it's all very personal
so it works